>>REGINA MEREDITH:
It's been said
in many spiritual traditions
that the human being is
born with an open
connection to our soul
with remembrances
from our deep past.
Over time, however, we
lose that direct connection
through societal and parental
programming and expectations.
We slowly begin to conform.
Our dreams begin to close
down, and we no longer
remember where we go at night
when the spirit leaves the body
to refresh itself, gain
knowledge, and connect
with other souls.
Jim Self has had the unique
benefit of never shutting down.
Every night he goes to
his soul's home place
and meets with beings
and ascended masters who
have shown him how life
in the cosmos works,
including what this great
shift means in very real terms.
This is a fascinating story.
Jim, thank you for driving
all the way up to Sedona
to meet us.
I think everybody
resonates really well
in these beautiful red rocks.
>>JIM SELF: Oh, yes.
Sedona's a great place.
>>REGINA: It is indeed.
And you've had an interesting
path, because on one hand,
you're a very intelligent,
grounded, practical person that
started a life in politics
at a very young age.
Pretty amazing.
>>SELF: Yes, it was.
>>REGINA: City council,
San Jose, at 26.
>>SELF: Right.
>>REGINA: How did anyone
trust you to vote you
into office at that age?
>>SELF: Well, if you
know about San Jose,
San Jose used to be the third
richest agricultural valley
in the world.
And then they built
houses over it.
And when I started playing
in the politics side of it,
we had triple
sessions in schools.
And so people would buy
this wonderful house
in this nice orchard, and
they'd get into the house,
and all of sudden
a new house would
be next door and
across the street.
It was a ridiculous thing.
So it was a very
nice transition to be
able to move from the old
guard who ran everything
to a whole new grouping
of people coming in.
And it was a nice fit.
>>REGINA: Still,
there was something
that you were exuding that
allowed this to happen.
And let's back into that a
little bit, because anyone
watching you right now,
you have an unusual amount
of light coming
out of your eyes.
Granted, you have lights
on you, but even when
the lights weren't on you, you
have a lot of light coming out
of your eyes.
So let's talk about dream
time and who you really are.
>>SELF: Well, you know,
one of the things that
happens when people come into
a body, born into a body,
you know everything.
That soft spot on the
top of your head, that's
the connection to the creator.
You're still connected.
And then you begin to listen to
mom, dad, preacher, minister,
teacher.
And you say, OK, I'm the little
one, they're the big ones,
and I'm going to
do what they say.
And you begin to shut that down.
Also, people are very connected.
They're clairvoyant,
they're clairsentient,
they're clairaudient.
They have a very full
connection to themselves
and to the world around them.
And then we shut that down to
do what the big ones say to do.
And in a way, I
never shut them down.
And it's an awkward place,
because people listening
are very sensitive.
You know, one of the
things that happens
to people who don't
shut that down is they
begin to be hiders in life.
They're very sensitive
to the energy
and to the feelings, the
emotions of other people.
And so that gets to
be very challenging
for a lot of people.
For me, it didn't seem
to affect me as much.
And the path I'm on just
allowed me to continue
to walk through that.
And then things
like city council
in San Jose and
building corporations
and the many other things
that I've been able to do,
they were just learning
points along the way
to begin to understand
this space that I
get to play in now.
>>REGINA: And that's really
what life is, if we all
understood it that way.
It's all just an
experiment, a playground,
whatever you want to call it.
>>SELF: Very much.
>>REGINA: So you've
always known that.
So you approached
each of these things
with the type of boldness the
average individual might have
lost because of all the
other voices in their heads
that suppress the boldness
that we are innately.
>>SELF: Well, I would
like to say yes.
But I have had my
own stuff in life.
Everybody's got their stuff.
And so to a great extent--
see, you're always on your path.
That path is something that's
very predetermined by you.
Usually when I say that, people
jump up and go, what about free
will?
Well it fits very well,
that path that you walk.
You've created it to have all of
these experiences in your life.
The "free will"
piece is how do you
choose to experience your path?
And when you start to
recognize that you choose,
there's no victims.
You either turn away from your
path or you stay on your path.
You begin to look
at what you want.
There is always
a boldness in it.
But sometimes people get knocked
down because you're not OK,
the world around you says.
And we believe that to
some plus or minus extent.
And so in my reality,
I believed it.
People said, you're not OK.
>>REGINA: You
bought into it too?
>>SELF: Of course.
Everybody buys into it.
But it's beginning to recognize
that you can't be not OK.
See, it's really an
impossible thing to be not OK.
You, this internal guidance
system right here is always OK.
But what we do is we look
at that external world--
mom, dad, teacher,
minister-- and they say,
this is what we know and
this is what the truth is,
and this is how you do it.
And then we follow that path.
And we continue to look
to our external world
for our own validation
and our truths.
And that doesn't work.
And so one of two
things happens.
Either you're very sensitive
and you get pushed away
and you say I'm not
OK and I don't fit
and I'm not part of
that, or you shut it down
in many ways and step into
it, and just boldly go.
>>REGINA: I think that's a good
point you make, because I mean,
even in my own life, I've
been in media since I
was a kid, basically,
in my mid, early 20s.
And I was so shy I
would have gnawed off
an arm before I would have
raised my hand in class.
And I was terrified to do this.
I did it on a dare.
And yet if you can push
through, like you say,
it's not that the fear
might not show itself.
But if you can go there
anyway, that's part
of that journey of
boldness, isn't it?
>>SELF: Very much so.
And there's a particular piece
where people lose quite often.
There's an aspect, this
inner guidance system,
that you simply know
this is my truth.
And you know when
it's not your truth.
And sometimes, when
you start to play
the game of the external world,
do money, do fame, do whatever
it may be for you,
we have a tendency
to shut that internal
guidance system down.
It's like, kind of be quiet.
I don't want to hear this.
I'm on my path, I'm having
success or whatever.
And we don't listen
to our own truths.
What this shift of
consciousness is about
is this internal guidance
system is now becoming
the compass that's driving you.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Now I want to
backtrack a little bit
because we didn't go into it.
You've had this extraordinary
ability that is very rare.
When you go into dream time,
into the other dimensions
that night, you actually have
recall when you come back.
Can you tell us what
you're doing over there,
and also how that information
may have interfaced
with putting you on your
path, and also making
some of the other
earthly decisions
you've made up to
what you're doing now.
>>SELF: I can't do that.
See, one of the
things that happens,
every night you go home.
Everybody goes home every night.
You lay the body down and
you say I'm going to sleep.
YOU begin to disconnect the
emotional, mental, spiritual
body from the physical body.
And you go home.
And as the process
of going home,
you pass through a dream
space, the astral plane,
as people describe it.
That's not home.
That's just a place that
you get to also play.
But when you go home, it's like
a fine flute or a single candle
burning.
It's so quiet and calm.
And it's in that
focused attention point
that you remember yourself.
You remember everything.
And in that space,
it's an amazing place.
The great beings that people
would attach to or have
reference to--
the Jesus, the
Buddha, the Metatrons,
the archangel Michael--
they're all there.
They all sit at that table.
And the other ones
that are there
are the "yous,"
the you and "mes."
We sit at that table, too,
fully engaged in that process.
The challenge is when you
come back to the body,
and when you separate it,
there's the acupuncture points.
See, this is very
interesting because that's
the docking points between the
emotional and the mental body.
And they're little
magnetic vortexes,
and they start to shut down,
and you begin to go home.
But when you come back and
you reconnect into that body,
this is the point
where most people
remember their
dreams is when you're
coming back into the body.
But you pass through
that astral aspect.
And that's not your dream.
That's not where home is.
That's just another place.
But as soon as you
re-enter that body
space, where you
left off yesterday,
you pick right back up.
So it's like going from that
single flute of quietness,
that single tone, back to
the Star-spangled Banner.
All the noise of yesterday
clicks right back in,
and people forget.
In my reality, part of my path
is to remember that space.
So I can come back and say
look, this is how this works.
These are how dimensions work.
This is how this pathway
or this shift works.
So the question, though, what
do you do when you go there,
is a very difficult one to
answer because the reference
points are different.
And when you start playing
in this fifth, sixth, seventh
dimensional reality, it's a
completely different realm
of consciousness.
So the bridging doesn't happen
comfortably in language.
And part of my
wonderful journey is
I have enough awareness
of what happens there
in that I can
bring into language
and then speak to this
shift of consciousness.
>>REGINA: And so
articulately as well.
And just continuing on that
dream theme for a moment,
this is very much
as I understand it,
although I can rarely remember
anything from that quiet time.
And I've often felt
that when you're
passing back through that
little astral thing, which is--
it's recognizable.
It's a very close dimension to
earth, people that you know.
I mean, you might be hooking
up with individual energies
or even individuals in
astral form, and maybe even
bringing back through some
understanding of something
that you're balancing within
the being via the feelings that
are played out in that little
drama realm or human realm.
>>SELF: The astral plane is
a very interesting aspect.
It is part of the
fourth dimension.
It is a place where things
happen in a different time
configuration.
You know you've had dreams
where somebody from your past
and somebody from your future,
they're in the same dream
and it's very consistent.
You don't think much about that.
But the astral plane is
a very fascinating place,
and it's going to be a
troubling place for many
as we go on this shift, because
one of the things that happens
in the astral plane
is what you think is
what you get as you think it.
But also, the astral
plane is fascinating
because depending on
the life you live here,
if you are a person that has
lots of negative thoughts
and lots of drama, when you go
through into that astral plane,
something very specific happens.
You see, thoughts are electrical
and emotions are magnetic.
Very important piece
of information.
And so how you think, and then
how you bind your thoughts
to emotions--
I hate that over
there, and you feel
that anger or that resentment
or whatever it may be--
or I love this wonderful thing,
and it's airy and it's fluid.
If you ever notice, thoughts
that you think that are heavy,
angry, resentful,
troubling, worrying,
they linger a very long
time in your awareness,
in many people's awareness.
>>REGINA: That's hell.
>>SELF: You are very accurate.
That's hell.
But it's hell in a moment
where I'll point to.
What happens is when you
hold those thoughts here,
and then you pass
into your sleep space,
those magnetic thoughts
of resentment, let's say,
that thought is
such that it anchors
to all the thoughts ever thought
that had that same thought
and emotional configuration.
So you just
magnetically get pulled
to a scripting that is very
much like what you think.
But where it becomes hell
is very accurate statement.
And what you do is--
in fact, they've done a study
on people who are in prisons.
And one of the
common things they
say is the thing I'm most
unhappy about in my life
is when I go to sleep.
I don't want to go to sleep.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's sad.
>>SELF: The reason being is
when I hold anger, resentment
murder, rape,
incest, and then I go
to sleep, guess
what I experience?
So what is that astral
plane that's challenging
is the heaviest, ugliest
thoughts, thought,
that have never been
manifested by you.
They sit in that level of
the astral plane, the heavier
part of the astral plane.
And when you go to
sleep, you begin
to magnetically connect
into all the other thoughts
that others have thought.
And that's a place that
you don't want to be.
>>REGINA: And that's not
just your thought frequency.
It's everyone who's had
similar frequency of thought.
>>SELF: Every thought.
>>REGINA: Feeding that field.
>>SELF: Every thought
ever thought like that.
When it's manifested, you bring
it into the third dimension
and experience it.
But where it has
not been manifested,
you begin to access that
when you go to sleep.
The challenge for the shift--
we're a little bit
out of context here--
but the third dimension,
which we can talk about,
is going to dissolve.
It's going away.
It cannot continue to exist.
But the fourth dimension
isn't going to go away.
So when you begin to play in
that fourth dimensional space
and you hold those really
negative, ugly thoughts,
you're going to
begin to experience
what you think as you think.
And that's going to be
a challenge for some.
See, the flip side
of it, though,
is when you think about puppy
dogs and little children
and wonderful things
and butterflies
and beautiful
Sedonas of the world,
those are fleeting
thoughts in a way,
because that magnetism
is not dense.
It's very fluid.
And so you have a nice
feeling with those thoughts,
but you don't stay focused
on them a long time.
So when you begin to have
that kind of construct
and you go home at night,
you pass into that area
much more quickly than you
do into those places which
you don't identify with
those heavier thoughts.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now you've opened up three
or four different places
we're going to go anyway.
So I'm going to
let you guide this.
You've just talked
about, essentially,
the beginning point of
what this shift is, right?
Now another
understanding I have--
and we're going back just a
little bit to that dream state
interfacing with this fourth
dimensional aspect we pass
through coming back
from our home at night--
is that as the third dimensional
frequencies start dissolving,
there might be some
confusion with individuals
as to their time
in the dream state
versus their physical reality.
And some people may
already be experiencing
this, whether it's positive
or whether it's heavy.
>>SELF: Well, let's back into
that with some structure.
So this thing called dimensions
is a very interesting aspect.
So a dimension-- let's start
with this third dimension,
which I'm saying is dissolving.
It's going away.
Well, the dimension is not
the chair we're sitting
and the house that surrounds
us, the tree outside the window.
That's form, that's
physical form.
But what this third dimension
is is a very dense reality,
and it's very structured.
It's conditional.
There's nothing in the third
dimension that's unconditional.
You have to get into
the fourth and fifth
before you experience
unconditional.
So conditional, it's very rigid.
There's not a lot of flexibility
in this third dimension.
It deals in things
like always and never.
She's never going
to be trustworthy.
I can never-- he always is
going to be this or that.
See, there's no
flexibility in that.
Very rigid.
There's also a component
in the third dimension that
keeps us very much in
the third dimension,
and that's how we
understand time.
Time is a very
fascinating thing.
Time is an application.
It's not a fixed creation.
So in the third dimension,
the time that we play in
is called past, present,
future, and then you die.
But if you look around and you
listen to people speaking, what
you hear them talking
about is not present time,
but this happened to
me once upon a time,
and I hope it never
happens to me again.
Or they said if I would,
therefore I will be.
So when you listen to
people, very seldom
do you hear them
speaking in present time
in a third dimensional reality.
There is a slight
moment of present time.
But it's called
reactionary present time.
It's like, oh no, this
wasn't supposed to happen.
Are you in present time?
Oh, yeah.
Are you a happy camper?
No, I'm in reaction.
All right?
So that's more or less the box.
But what happens is, there is
no past and there is no future.
But there is a past present
moment that you experienced,
and there will be a
future present moment
that you will experience.
But when people play in
the past, a lot of times
you say, how are you, and
people go, oh, I'm fine.
Well, somehow, I'm fine and
I'm fine don't match up.
When you say, well,
what's going on?
Well, my husband
died 20 years ago.
Oh.
And it's still sad for me.
Well, they're sad in
the present moment.
So emotions can only occur
in the present moment.
And an event in your past
is a piece of information.
So when you keep re-living
your past moment over and over,
you get the same
thing over and over.
And so that's time-related.
But if I said, oh, I
know your husband died.
That's too bad.
But how was that lunch you had
yesterday at that restaurant?
Oh, it was really great.
Are they in that past
moment at that moment?
No, they're now very present.
And that present
time moment is kind
of a fourth dimensional space.
You live in both of
these at the same time.
And so in the fourth
dimension, present time
is a very big piece.
But what makes present
time so important
as a time application is when
you're living in the past
or living in the future,
you don't have choice.
You have reaction.
The moment you get into present
time, then you have choice.
And it's in that
choice you begin
to create different structures.
Fourth dimension has a
consideration called paradox.
And in simple terms,
paradox means what was true
just a minute ago may
not be true right now.
So in the fourth
dimension, you get
to get out of many of those
restricted, non-flexible
structures.
So she shows up at your
door 20 years later
and you say, oh, I remember you.
You were the bad one.
But what they may
have done is showed up
at your doorstep to say
I'm so sorry for what
I did 20 years ago.
So if you can have
flexibility, you
begin to change your reality.
That simple piece
is what's going
to allow everybody to step
into this next dimensional
structure.
>>REGINA: And as you
say, this is a choice.
We have to make this
choice in the moment.
Right?
>>SELF: It's in the moment.
You only have the moment.
You have history from
your past, and you
have creative opportunity
in your future.
But you can only make the
future happen in the moment.
>>REGINA: And I bring that
up because a lot of people
think that we're here, we chose
to incarnate into this time,
it's going to happen to us.
But actually, there
is a participation
that needs to occur.
There are choices
that need to occur.
And you just spoke to that.
And one of the things that's
very disconcerting for a lot
of people right now as we--
again, I want to keep
this journey of going
through these
dimensional fields intact
as we move through them
in this conversation.
But one of them that is
disconcerting in the moment
is that people reach for words.
All ages, not Alzheimer's.
And you talk about
this in your book,
and when I read your book,
I thought, oh my god.
You pick up something
so ordinary.
You have it in your head,
picture in your head,
you're going to go do
this, you can't even
articulate the word
for that common thing.
Can you tell us
what's happening?
>>SELF: Yeah.
See, this shift, the
universe understands
you don't remember who you are.
So let me identify it this way.
So you're walking along and
you're having a good day,
and somebody comes
along and insults you.
And you first have
a thought, oh, that
doesn't sound very good.
But you immediately
have an emotion.
And in that emotion you say, oh,
this isn't a very good thing.
And then you try to figure
out what to do with that.
You're not attractive, you don't
fit, you're not intelligent,
you're never going to
amount to anything.
You get insulted.
And you've got this insult,
and what do I do with it?
And you go to your best
friend and you say,
somebody just said
I'm not smart,
and they go, they were right.
Now what do you do with it,
because you have no place
to dump it off.
So what we do is we simply say,
I can't handle this anymore.
So I'm going to put it over
here in this little box called
denial.
And then you keep looking at
it and it keeps coming back.
So you make a deal with it.
You say, if I put you
back here in this place
called unconsciousness,
I'll make a deal with you.
I'll never go visit
that spot again
if you don't jump out
and bite me in the butt.
Does that make sense?
Now what happens is
we have collected
a whole lot of who we are not.
See, going back to what
I said in the beginning,
you can't be not OK.
But you can accept other
people's gifts of you're
not OK.
And what we have a tendency
to do is we wear those coats,
and we simply walk
around defining ourselves
by I'm not OK.
But you can't be not OK.
So as this shift unfolds, why
you're losing your memory,
is the universe knows that
you don't remember where you
stored all those I'm not OKs.
And in this journey, you can't
take your baggage with you.
From this third
dimension, moving
to this fifth
dimensional space, you
can't be not OK in
the fifth dimension.
So you and the universe
are clearing away
a lot of those patterns
that you hold onto that
simply say I'm not OK.
And so this transformation we're
in, you are losing your memory.
And the memory is
really, I'm not OK.
And it's disappearing.
But sometimes the part
you're asking about--
and I've had this
holding a spoon,
and it's like, there's a--
can't find it.
No matter what.
It doesn't matter
whether you're a child
or an 85-year-old person.
It's as you say,
it's not Alzheimer's.
You are losing your
memories of I'm not OK.
If you think about your past,
you've had lots of experiences
where you've been insulted or
you've embarrassed yourself.
Those were experiences.
But if you really
think about it,
many times those
experiences happened,
and they took one
second or two seconds.
And yet you define the rest
of your life by I'm not OK.
That's being cleared
from your reality.
And so that's where
part of this memory.
>>REGINA: If it drags the
spoon with it, there you go.
>>SELF: And what happens is,
because the brain and synaptics
and the axons and all of
the aspects of the brain--
and that whole field of memory,
which sits in your energy field
far more than it
sits in your head---
as pieces are removed,
those connections
get disconnected, spoon.
And you think about it for a
minute, and all of a sudden
it's like, oh, yeah, spoon.
So all that reconnection
is going on all the time.
But you are losing the
memory of who you are not.
>>REGINA: You're not
losing your mind,
you're losing your memory.
>>SELF: Correct.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And that's a good distinction.
You're talking-- and I've heard
other people speak of this as
well, moving from this third
dimensional consciousness
into the fourth, into the fifth
dimensional consciousness.
Now I think where
some people who've
contemplated this
become confused
is the understanding, this fine
understanding of the difference
between dimensions and
vibrational frequencies
and densities.
It doesn't mean your
world suddenly disappears,
but your consciousness
has shifted.
>>SELF: Correct, exactly.
>>REGINA: And if you'd
explain that a bit.
>>SELF: Sure.
So the couch, the chair
really doesn't go away
in this fifth
dimensional reality.
You live in a third and a
fourth dimension the time,
and you're stepping
into a fifth dimension.
The fifth dimension is lighter.
It's airier, if you would.
In the fifth dimension
words like safety and trust
do not exist.
There's nothing unsafe and
there's nothing to distrust.
In that fifth dimension, it's
co-creation, cooperation,
it's beauty and well-being
and reverence and kindness
and graciousness, all
those wonderful words.
But those words are not
intellectual spoken words.
They are felt. And so
in that place where
you live graciousness, you
live certainty, command,
you live capableness--
when you begin to
live in those words,
you start to move
around very differently.
In a third dimension,
you know all those words.
Capable, certain, happy,
gracious, commanding.
But how often do we
live those words?
And see, now we're
talking about the path
into the fifth
dimension because when
you can sit and feel
happy, or if I say,
have you ever been certain?
And oh, yeah, I've
been certain, you say.
But if I say, no, wait a
minute, just take a breath
and feel certain, all of a
sudden it's like, oh, OK,
certain.
Something happens in the
physiology when you change
the frequency of thought.
Then you begin to
get to a place where
you start to structure that
thought into an every moment
action.
And you find, also,
when you're feeling
capable or certain, pleased,
there's a presence about you.
And that presence
is in present time.
That's the place where you
command from well-being.
And that's the pathway into
this fifth dimensional space.
>>REGINA: And shall
we assume that when
we evolve our ourselves
into this fifth dimensional
consciousness, that the
speed of creation changes?
>>SELF: Oh, yes.
It becomes instantaneous.
See, when you change
the time configuration,
and you get away
from past and future,
and you get into the present
time, where the game of time,
in present time, there's
four layers of present time.
And each one becomes
more instantaneous.
And so as you step
into this, you're
going to find also that time is
simultaneous and time is also
circular.
And so there's places in these
present time configurations
where, when you are very
present in your body,
observing your reality,
and then choosing
how you wish to interact
with that reality,
that concept is very different
than shoot, ready, aim, or they
said and so I'm going
to do what they said.
So when you start to get
into that construct where
you can observe,
choose, and act,
and you begin to play in
well-being, recognizing this is
all about well-being, I
don't need to be angry,
you can't take anger with you
into that fifth dimension.
It's too heavy.
It's like a big weight
in your hot air balloon.
The balloon will just go up
so high and it'll stall out.
You have to get rid
of the I'm not OK's.
See, this is what the
universe is doing.
It knows those heavy
rocks in your backpack
have nothing to do with you.
They're just gifts that others
have given you that you've
accepted to walk around with.
As they begin to
dissipate and go away,
the ability to simply have
conversation without "Am I OK?"
begins to be very fluid.
And it's in that
space that you're
going to start to
find the ability
to create more instantaneously.
Like, I'd like an
apple, and that apple's
going to appear in your hand.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Very beautiful.
Let's look at the human
beings that exist now.
Certainly this
journey is perhaps
proving to be a little
more challenging for people
who were born a few decades
or several decades ago
as the beginning
of these energies
started making this shift.
So we're actually born
into the previous densities
and constructs and boxes.
Yet we chose to be the first
ones in that generation that
have chosen to go through this
metamorphosis from that density
through to another
one, which is--
that's a brave group of souls.
And then you have the
next ones coming in, who--
the energies are a little more
established, the new energies.
Then you have the little
babies being born now.
And can you talk a
little bit about what
this has been like
from your observations
of these different generations
that have chosen to come in
at very specific times?
>>SELF: These beings, at
each one of those intervals,
really it started back
in the late 1800s.
It was an inkling of
thought of possibility.
And some came, and
some performed,
and some did what they did.
>>REGINA: This were
the Rudolf Steiners
and some of these individuals.
>>SELF: Nicola Teslas,
all of these great beings.
And yet they came
into a time where
they came into a confrontation
with an ideology, a philosophy,
money was a big piece.
Not making it bad or
good, it was a philosophy
in how we will create and
we will build great empires,
some said.
The Rockefellers
and all of those
did remarkably wonderful things.
But they did it from a place
that was not in that law of one
where the first become the last
and the last become the first.
They did it with a break in it.
Me, I'm going to get it for me,
and I don't care about them.
And that's what we played
through that period of time
setting this all up.
>>REGINA: Lot of
resistance to the ones
who came in with knowledge.
>>SELF: Sure.
So when Tesla showed up
and Edison showed up,
and the guys with the money
said where do I make money,
they weren't going to
make money from Tesla.
And if that had been
adapted, we would
be having this conversation
back in the 40s.
But it wasn't adapted,
and it wasn't integrated.
And so that break,
where there was
OK to have poor
and non-havingness,
and it was OK to
not pay attention
to women's rights and gay
rights and environmental rights.
So we brought ourselves
to this place.
But as that was
happening, there was
the you and me's
and many others that
said we're going to
make a difference.
And so you had an
interval in 1920
where there were some really
remarkable beings that
came onto the planet and
said, I'll make a difference.
And they did.
Quietly they came and they went.
But starting in about 1945 a
very large grouping of beings
came.
And many of them came
for different reasons.
Many of them came with
very big purposes.
And yet it was still an
inkling that maybe, just
maybe something would
happen, because we
have done this number of times
before, and in those past times
we have not succeeded.
And so the intention was to
become this fully Christed
consciousness.
That's not about a
man or a religion.
That's about an evolution.
And we have not succeeded, and
we've ripped up that blueprint
and we've tried again.
And so this whole process
was another one of those.
And that year 2000
was very magical.
And you can read about in
Revelations, Ezekiel, Daniel
in the Bible.
And you had nine ways
to do yourself in,
to rip up the blueprint,
to try once again.
But in 1945, '46, that
grouping came into presence,
and they came very much into
presence in the late 60s.
And you had the environmental
movements and the gay movements
and all the various
movements, women's rights,
where people just said, enough.
And then, oddly enough,
that disappeared
in the 70s and the
80s, and then money
came back into the process.
But make no mistake.
Those that brought about the 60s
and 70s, they didn't go away.
And now they're coming back
in lots of different ways.
And they are making
a difference.
These are big beings.
And in 1987, when the
harmonic convergence came,
that was enormous because
that's the point in time where
the new one started to come.
And so you're watching
these kids today.
Their DNA is different,
their mental configurations
are different,
their recognitions
of where they came from
is conscious to them.
We just don't ask
them many times.
So their knowledge of who they
are is very ingrained in them.
And now the newer kids,
the ones with autism
and the ones that are broken
and obviously something's
wrong, no, nothing's wrong.
We just don't recognize the
capacity that they have.
And if we were to recognize
it, we would have to change.
But now we're into the shift.
And the shift is, in fact,
going to occur in such a way
that this grouping of great ones
that were quiet but basically
made a difference
has come about.
And you're seeing it now, and
more and more are waking up.
And those are the leaders and
the teachers and the healers
and the ones that said,
I can make a difference.
And they never lost
that right here,
in that space in their heart.
>>REGINA: So this is a
challenging time, then,
for the little ones
who've come in.
They have one foot still
in their home field
and their other foot here.
It's almost-- in some
cases, as you say in autism,
it's almost like it's
a premature stepping
into this world because the
world doesn't understand them
and is not ready to embrace
everything that they
have to offer just yet.
How do you see us bridging that
with these incredible young
beings who are here now?
>>SELF: These incredible
young ones will take over,
you know, and they know
what they're doing.
And see, it's an interesting
thing about these new ones
because some of these have
never had bodies before.
And these are big beings
coming from lots of places.
And there are many who
have had bodies before,
and they have the knowledge
to step right into things
like governments
and corporations
and basically say,
we're going to do this
from that law of one,
where everybody counts.
And there's no greed, and
basically there's a philosophy
that you're going to see,
you've started to see it,
it's one plus one is three.
How do you take everything
to the high road?
And when you play
in that philosophy--
and like our business,
we give away far more
than we charge for, and
we give away substance
because I know I'm
never going to see
all those people
that I'm talking to
in all these free lectures.
But it doesn't matter if
I get rewarded from well,
give me your dollar.
So that model is starting
to fall apart in the world.
The money model
is going to change
to something really remarkable.
But it's based on one
plus one is three.
Take it to the high
road, give things away,
and it comes back
to you in many ways.
That's what you're starting
to see in this shift.
But you're seeing people in
each one of those generations
that you're talking about.
The ones that came in
the 40s, particularly,
are making very major
things happen today,
even though they're not
visible in many regards.
>>REGINA: Thank you
for explaining that.
It's a very beautiful
kind of gradation
of the consciousness coming in.
And now when you're
working with people,
I mean, we've already
talked about what
the possibility for
each of us is now
if we make that choice to
start moving into the clearer
feelings, emotions, listening
to our internal self,
moving into that fifth
dimensional consciousness.
But in your work,
there are tools
that you utilize to do this.
And I know you can't
share everything here
because we only have a
short bit of time together.
Maybe just give us a glimpse
of some of those tools,
and people can check in with
you later to find out more.
>>SELF: Sure.
See, what you're really
asking about in your evolution
is something that
you're not taught
in the system of your
education and your upbringing.
So you're taught that
everything external to you
is what drives your reality.
And so we're starting to begin
to recognize no, that I count.
And that's a big shift
for a lot of people,
begin not I is the one really
important from the ego side.
It's the place that I have value
is what's starting to happen.
But in order to
begin to play there,
one of the things that
helps is to recognize
that energy, and the
vibration of energy
and the vibration of words
and thoughts and emotions.
If you understand what's
happening in and around you,
and how to manage your
energy, you basically
can step out of
all of these issues
that you generally
are confronting
in your external world where
they tell you you're OK or not.
And so this energy field,
this aura around you,
very, very important thing.
In a way-- this is not a
truth that I'm going to say--
but there's a point where
you stop and you start.
Really, that's not accurate,
but for this purpose,
if you can define where
the edge of your aura
is, which is approximately
when you stick your hand out
in front of you and
turn it this way,
and if you can begin to
have a consideration that
from this point
to me is who I am,
and everything on the
other side of that
is Shakespeare's
theater to entertain me,
would that create a
concept and a perception
differently than you
normally walk around with?
Yes, it does, if you
can stay on your side.
So one of the
tools, very simple,
we use the concept of a rose
that has lots of meaning.
But if you were to
create an image of a
rose right here on the
edge of your energy field,
and know it goes all
the way around you
so you're standing
inside of a circle,
if you would, and this is
me and that's the theater.
And the rule is you stay on your
side of the rose, more or less.
If you can play
that game, it puts
you one, into present time,
and two, it gives you choice.
Then you can observe,
choose, and decide
on how you wish to act.
Very gigantic shift
in people's reality.
One of the things that
happens to people is--
I'll even go this far--
most of the thoughts that you
think and most of the beliefs
that you hold are
not even yours.
And so how much time
do you pay attention
to all that noise running
through your head all day long?
And mostly it's other
people's thoughts
moving through your space.
As soon as you
create this rose--
and this is not a
wall or a keep out
or a defense mechanism-- it
just simply says, this is me
and that's the game.
>>REGINA: The theater, yeah.
>>SELF: And just by entertaining
that and holding it,
an enormous amount of the
noise begins to stay out.
Also, many people
are very empathetic.
I feel you.
Well, what happens
is, I feel you--
in order to say that, I
have to be in present time
going oh, yes, this is sad about
your 20-year-old husband that
died.
I feel your feelings.
Empathy, sympathy.
But in real terms, it
doesn't do you very much good
running somebody else's
emotions through your body.
But when you look at
families, for example,
families are very much
in each other's space.
And it causes challenges
in relationships,
often, if you think about
it from that standpoint.
Not beating up
families in any way.
But I cannot distinguish
myself between your feelings
and my feelings.
Husbands, wives,
mothers, children.
It doesn't matter.
It's I like you because
you are like me.
But when I run your
you through the me,
I get confused quite often.
As soon you play
with this rose, you
start to create a distinction
between your bubble that you
live in and the
bubble that I live in.
And I can admire and respect
you a whole lot more many times
when I'm not trying to figure
you out from right here.
>>REGINA: And feel everything
and process everything
the other person is feeling.
And yet we do this
simply to feel like we're
connected to each other.
>>SELF: Very much.
And it's a distortion.
And once you begin
to create this--
I don't want to use
the word separation,
but identity of me
and identity of you,
I can admire you far greater
in your creations rather than
being in competition with you
because why did you get it
and I didn't?
So the whole mindset
begins to shift,
and you literally start
to move into that place
where I can allow you, admire
you, appreciate you being you,
and learn opportunities
because I'm not in competition
with you.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Very beautifully stated.
>>SELF: Very big deal.
>>REGINA: Big deal.
I can feel what you're
articulating energetically,
as other people can listening to
this, watching this right now.
That was very beautifully put.
>>SELF: I'll give you
another simple one.
See, and people understand
this concept of grounding,
grounding.
That word's been floating
around for some time.
And people have
energetically begun
to understand that
if you imagine
a line from the
tip of your spine
to the center of the
earth, just like putting
your hand under the water to get
rid of that electrical charge.
But I said earlier,
thoughts are electrical,
emotions are magnetic.
So that electrical line
will start to siphon off
many of those thoughts.
You know how you get
people's thoughts
and they're bouncing around?
>>REGINA: The busyness, yeah.
>>SELF: And you just are
consumed all day long.
That simply is like a ping pong
ball that has no place to go.
But when you ground and
you give the command
to turn on the grounding,
that electrical static
has a place to go.
But simultaneously, the
emotions you feel many times
are not your emotions.
And so if you build a
little coil around that line
that you connect, you
begin to neutralize
many of the emotions that have
nothing to do with you at all.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELF: Now think about it.
If you could get rid of
that anger or that sadness
or that depression, what you
will find when you define
the rose and you ground,
that a great portion of that
has nothing to do
with you at all.
>>REGINA: Again,
very beautifully put.
And now we go to this kind
of final little point,
and a huge point, is that when
you're with you, when you're
truly connected
with your deepest
aspect of your multi-dimensional
self, there is this quietude.
There's not a need for
chatter, for competition,
even to seek or question.
It's so quiet and clear.
And the contrast is
almost non-existent.
We, up until now, feel
alive through contrast.
So psychologically,
we have to let
go of this desire
for this contrast
to feel alive to go into
this much more sublime place.
And how do you experience it,
your students, as you yourself,
and the people that come
to your lectures and such,
how does that progression look?
>>SELF: Well, one
of the things that I
find in kind of
this path that I've
been asked to teach
by the archangels,
and what the
archangels said is, we
believe there's a pathway
that has never been walked,
never walked.
And if it's followed,
it will ascend,
it'll create an ascension
for those that walk it,
a change, a dramatic change.
But it will also create a
light, a magnetic portal,
if you would, that will draw
all of the third dimension
into the fifth dimension.
And so that's kind of
what mastering alchemy is.
But that pathway is very
specifically laid out.
And words become very
important in the pathway.
So if I say to you, in third
dimension, the word ease, like,
oh, take it easy, you
have a sense of that.
But when you get
into the quietness
that you're pointing
to and you say,
I'd like to experience ease,
very different experience
energetically in the body.
When you step into a
fifth dimensional space
and you recognize that you are a
citizen of the fifth dimension,
and in that space you live in
a reverence and a regalness,
it's almost like a royalty with
the most wonderful side of it
where this is who I am, that
presence becomes very big.
Then you begin to experience
words like freedom in a way you
cannot imagine in a third
and fourth dimension.
But you experience
that word ease.
It's full, it's distinct,
it adds magnetics,
it attracts words
like graciousness.
And graciousness is a
fifth dimensional word.
We can speak it in
our language, but you
have no idea what
graciousness is
as you begin to be that
citizen in the fifth dimension
living in ease and
beauty and well-being.
>>REGINA: Well, you've painted
a beautiful portrait of what
we can choose to move into.
And it is our choice.
>>SELF: And where
we are about to go.
>>REGINA: And where
we're about to go.
And again, mastering
alchemy is the work
that you're offering
the world at this time.
People can check in with
you or go to seminars,
read books, whatnot.
There's plenty online free
also, DVDs, all of the above,
so they can start working
themselves through clearing--
not just clearing, but actually
choosing to go on this path
into themselves, into their
fifth dimensional self.
It's very beautiful.
>>SELF: It's a pathway.
It's not a truth.
It's not a philosophy.
It's not anything.
It simply says, if you
can begin to change
this I'm not OK into a sense
of I'm capable, I'm certain,
I'm present, you have a
very different experience.
It's not follow me or listen to.
It's do this.
Apply these tools and watch
the world around you change.
>>REGINA: I think you're
a good person to do this.
You have a great deal
of humility and clarity
in your being.
And I really appreciate
your taking the time
to sit with me today.
>>SELF: Thank you.
>>REGINA: I found the
details about the dissolution
of the third
dimension, and our move
into the thought form
world of the fourth,
absolutely fascinating.
We've all heard that
we need to watch
the quality of our thoughts.
Now you know why.
You can learn more
about Jim's work
by going to
masteringalchemy.com.
You can pick up a copy of
his introductory book called
"The Shift", his DVD
course, or find out
about his live seminars there.
Until next time, thanks
for watching CMN.
[MUSIC PLAYING]